 Josh Davidsburg

Senior Lecturer

jdavidsb@umd.edu

https://www.linkedin.com/in/jdavidsburg/

https://www.twitter.com/jdavidsburg

https://github.com/jdavidsburg

Experience:

Senior Lecturer
University of Maryland, College Park;
College Park, MD
2020-present
Teaching broadcast news reporting and writing and documentary filmmaking. Focusing on both the technical and editorial sides of modern reporting. Pushing students to embrace new story-telling techniques through social media and innovative reporting.

Full-time Lecturer
University of Maryland, College Park
College Park, MD
2013-2020
Teaching broadcast news writing, shooting and editing. Focusing on both the technical and editorial sides of modern reporting. Pushing students to embrace new story-telling techniques through social media and innovative reporting.

Documentary Filmmaker,
Lot 1 films
Annapolis, MD
2014-present
Working on various documentaries, both feature-length and shorts, which have been accepted into top-tier, national film festivals. Currently screening a feature-length documentary focusing on drag queen culture in Washington, D.C.

Freelance Reporter
Maryland Public Television
Owings Mills, MD
2014-present
Enterprising government and business stories for both the State Circle and Your Money and Business shows. Covering the Maryland State Legislature, producing weekly stories while the body is in session, and covering new and interesting topics, trends and start-ups monthly, during the rest of the year.

Consultant
The Virginian-Pilot
Norfolk, VA
2017
Helped traditional newspaper reporters transition from print to broadcast for “The Shot” podcast. Taught reporters broadcast style and story construction and helped edit scripts. The acclaimed podcast, The Pilot’s first long-form series, investigated the unsolved murder of a police officer in Virginia Beach, Va.

Freelance Reporter
WBAL
Baltimore, <D
2013—2014
Focusing on all aspects of big market television news from breaking live shots to enterprising daily stories. Filled in during holidays and on weekends.

Senior Communications Manager
Maryland Department of Natural Resources
Annapolis, MD
2009-2013
Produced, shot and edited videos for both the Department and the Governor's Office. Developed video policy and strategy for DNR and the state. Managed employees who handle all press inquiries and communications for DNR.

Reporter
WBAL
Baltimore, MD
2007-2009
Focusing on all aspects of big market television news from breaking live shots to enterprising daily stories.

Reporter
Maryland Public Television
Owings Mills, MD
2007-2009
Enterprising weekly business stories for the Your Money and Business show, focusing on new business trends, marketing ideas and statewide economics.

Reporter
WBBH
Fort Myers, FL
2005-2007
Reported every shift, morning, dayside and nightside, with an emphasis on enterprising hard, exclusive stories and live, breaking news.

Reporter
WMDT
Salisbury, MD
2002-2005
Reported every shift, morning, dayside and nightside, with an emphasis on enterprising hard, exclusive stories and live, breaking news.

Marketing Coordinator
Phillips Foods, inc.
Baltimore, MD
2001-2002
Helped plan and execute marketing schemes, promotional events and advertising campaigns.


Education
M.A., Journalism, University of Maryland, College Park, TBA
B.A., Journalism, University of Maryland, College Park, 2001


Skills

- Reporting
- Writing
- Video Production
- 360 Video production
- Final Cut Pro X
- Apple Motion
- Adobe Premiere
- Part 107 Drone Operator
- Social Media
- Film Fundraising
- Grant Writing
- Film Distribution
